---
Created: 2025-01-13T21:39:00
Zero-Links:
  - "[[00 Programming]]"
Links:
  - "[[C]]"
  - "[[The C programming language]]"
tags:
  - code
Completed: true
---


```c
#include <stdio.h>              //include information about standard library

int main()                      // define a function named main
                                // that receives no argument values
{                               // statements of main are enclosed in braces
    printf("hello, world\n");   // main calls library funciton printf
}                               // to print this sequence of characters;
                                // \n represents the newline character

```


The statements of a function are enclosed in braces {}. The function main contains only one statement,
```c
printf("hello, world\n");
```

A function called by naming it, followed by a parenthesized list of arguments, so this calls the function printf with the argument "hello, world\n". printf is a library function that prints output, in this case the string of characters between the quotes.
A sequence of characters in double quotes, like "hello, world\n", is called a *character string* or *string constant*. For the moment our only use of character strings will be as arguments for printf and other functions.
The sequence \n in the string is C notation for the *newline character*, which when printed advances the output to the left margin on the next line. If you advance after the output is printed. You must use \n to include a newline character in the printf argument; if you try something like

```c
printf()"hello, world");
```

the C compiler will produce an error message.
printf never supplies a newline automatically, so several calls may be used to build up an output line in stages. Our first program could just as well have been written

```c
#include <stdio.h>

int main()
{
	printf("hello, ");
	printf("world");
	printf("\n");
}
```

to produce identical output.
Notice that \n represents only a single character. An *escape sequence* like \n provides a general and extensible mechanism for representing hard-to-type or invisible characters. Among the others that C provides are \t for tab, \b for backspace, \" for the double quote, and \\ for the backslash itself.